Welcome back lovely God people in this video in a finished building the pitch and to do that we need
to figure out what we need.
We're going to be playing kick about football soccer whatever we want to call it some sports thing.
Our picture's going to need some goals right.
We need something to kick the ball into to score a point.
But we also need boundary walls.
We want to make sure that the ball doesn't fall outside the pitch.
We also need to make the pitch a lot more beautiful but we're not going to do that and viscerally I
wouldn't do that the next one which are build the pitch beautification comes later.
First thing I do is I'm going to go to my models and open goal.
And here we have Golden DHT and openness as a new inherited scene.
You'll notice here that I've forgotten to rename it from scene roots.
I'm going to call this gold.
And you also notice that we already have materials applied there are two materials going some that save
this as a scene as you call it gold.
Before we open these materials you notice that the green of the gold is shine quite clearly whereas
the white of the net isn't.
Let's take a look at why.
If I open the gold material and scroll down you'll see that I've got this option called emission turned
on.
Well that's doing is emitting light emitting light in the colour of emission here at full energy.
So even when it's dark this is going to go green.
I could protect you here as well and not doing it.
Now the reason I've done this is later in the game when the player scores a goal the lights are going
to dim and I want the goals to still be visible.
If we wanted to we could also do the net material so I could go in to emission enable it turned a little
white and say what's a good energy zero point five.
And that will show quite clearly.
So if you wanted to show go ahead and leave the mission off now now what we have here is we have a Rutan
code which is this which is just a space within which we have these two meshes.
I would like this to be a static body.
So I'm going to change the type to static body.
And now we have an issue right.
The issue is we need collision but I can't just put a simple box in because I want the ball to pass
through the archway and stop at the nets.
His women do select the golf mesh itself not the static body and repress mash and then I have these
options.
Now I want this to be a sibling because I want it to be at the same level as the goal I don't want it
to be one level down because the top layer the root node is ours is the parent.
That's what needs the static body.
I've got two options here but trimmer mesh and compex.
Let's talk very quickly about what a convex polygon is.
OK so let's say we have a simple shape right.
And I want to draw a line through it.
The idea is if I draw a simple line I can always pass through two points in the middle where I draw
this line.
I will always pass two points.
That is what we call a convex polygon a Trimix polygon doesn't follow those rules.
So for example I might only get two but I might get more than that right so here I have four.
So convex is great for simple balkhi polygon shapes right maybe a pyramid maybe a cube but when I've
got lots and lots of intricate details.
I'm only using trite Nash.
So with that in mind I think it's pretty clear what we need.
We need a trimmest polygon.
So I'm going to just hit create trainer SH collision sibling and there it is there a collision.
Also do the same thing for the net gain.
So I'm going to click on some mesh and here it doesn't really matter of as a child or a sibling so let's
just do differently less do the child.
And again this is a be Trimix.
Now you'll notice when I look at it I can't actually see it clearly.
Try is quite intricate and complicated in its final shape.
So as a result it can be quite hard to see it against the goal but I've never has collision in it.
Why do you want to do is make sure from that collision layers such the side what we are.
We are part of the pitch.
That's fine.
We want to stop the ball and probably the players.
I don't think I want the players going through the goal.
I should do the same with the Net and on the ball going through the net.
The reason is I don't want the ball to come in from the side here.
And still score a goal.
So let's go to the static body under the net and just do the same thing.
You want your part of the pitch.
You stop the ball and the players don't interact with pitch animous save that cup and now we can bring
in our goals.
I want to go to the root node and make a brand new node body and call this goals and as a child of this
instance and the goal scenes got there and it's some show that move that for now just nice and rough
and ready.
Great.
OK.
So I want this goal to be in line with these lies you will notice by the way because here's a hand drawn
text that I made it's not perfectly centred.
I know I'm sorry.
So let's get this a bit better.
I want to move to there.
And that's looking pretty good.
I also think I might need to resize the picture before and after the second go.
I'm going to rename it a gold one.
I want to duplicate it.
And we now have got to move this one over here and rotated against a transform rotation degrees 90 and
go one isn't actually perfectly on it.
Let's take a look at the transform on the y axis 90 degree rotation.
Much better.
And let's move to behind these lines for now.
I think the pitch is actually a okay size okay.
What I do here.
Oh yeah man minus 90 not 90.
There it is.
So then that actually comes slight you.
Some it the pitcher bit bigger.
So I go into my kitchen and let's see into them meshing instance itself.
I'm not could you just scale up the pitch because if I do that it's going to start applying scale to
collision shape.
And that's where you start going we had collision bucks so let's go to emersion since click on a mash
and our current size is 20 by 15.
So I think maybe 22 by 16.
Save that.
I have to save it or it won't apply as they go looking again.
Looking a bit better some of the goal of it here.
And gold too.
Over here.
Great.
Now go back into the pitch and take a look at the collision the collision doesn't go to the end so if
a player walks to the edge of the pitch that probably in a fall off the ball certainly will feel as
good a collision shape.
And I'm just going to make that a bit bigger.
So it is now what has that 11 by 9 8.
Obviously 16 to Allah 2 is not 9.
I can MAF one more thing also do we now have these two goals and the same colour.
Now we are going to be changing one of the players either player 1 player 2 to blue.
I'm going to put player 1 in blues and take this gold here and I want to change the material.
First thing is to do is make a material work.
Let's rename gold material to go green
and now want to duplicate it.
And the new material is going to be called to do goldbloom.
It's open go blue actually make it blue.
Summer pick a nice deep but still quite bright blue skies.
And you know what let's copy the raw.
So copy the hex code for it and I can save it.
But if you look carefully there's a sort of green glow around the outside because it's emitting green
so that sort of paste that hex code I just took in and now it's going to emit blue when I save it you
probably can't see on my screen but my new yours it'll now niblo gets a gold one.
I need to apply this material.
I only want to apply it to this instance.
I don't want to change all instances of gold to green sort of thing do we go to editable children.
I'm going to find the gold mesh itself and on material I'm just going to drag it in blue.
Save that and let's press play just to make sure.
Have a blue gold and a gringo look.
They're glowing.
We have an unlit clear background at a player who can't hit the goal.
The boeken out into the goal and will stop them.
But we still fall off the edge.
Which brings me to the challenge.
I'd like you to enclose the pitch.
I want you to find a way of stopping the ball and the players falling off the pitch has a few different
ways you could do this.
So pause the video make sure that the ball and the players can't fall off the pitch and when you're
satisfied come back and I'll show you my solution.
And welcome back.
OK.
So there's a few different ways we can do this but what I'm gonna do is I'm a creep.
Boundary walls.
Now if I make a note here and call this boundary's because that seems like a good name for it I can
just add a collision and it'll work fine.
I can give that a box and move that over.
The problem is when I have several of these they can be quite hard to see sallus extant than out and
just duplicate it and put another one here.
Now there is a time later we were actually in a do this and that's going make it very different as you
were doing so instead of that it leads to instead of that what I'm to do is create a match and make
this a cube.
But when I move the cube over to the edge of the map and let's scale the mesh itself.
So on the X I want 22 I think we said on a Y.
That's the height and I put this as a key execs as good.
You can see three right now because it's actually balogun Lift in a minute and on the Zeds you can leave
that as to why mylene is too.
Because if the closure is nice some big it'll pick up the ball.
Now we don't yet have a clear shape which cannot bring that back a little bit.
In fact I should do that by positioning it was going to transform is going to be minus 9 minus 9.
Much better.
Let's bring it up slightly to bring this up by 3.
I look good.
Yeah now the ball could go higher than this so what do we say we're going to go higher and make this
height of 10 not have sex so the y axis 10 high.
Great.
And here's a boundary wall.
Now I'm gonna rename this to back
and to make it nice and simple.
I'm going to mash create convex static body and I'm going to give up and to minimize that and duplicate
my back wall call this one front wall and just move that.
Going to transform not minus 9 your 9.
Now the next one I don't want to duplicate because if I change the propolis for any of these it'll change
for all of them.
So instead let's just make one go back to boundary's get a mesh bag.
A box la la movie of here for now and let's see our Mash is going to be exis too.
Why is 10 and z should be 16 I believe.
Is that good.
No not covering the corners that could be a problem later I think.
Probably fine.
And let's see.
Translation So any minus 12.
And we need we've got a height of 10.
We're halfway through this winter lifted by 5 and that should be pretty good.
So that's our left wall and we generate a convex static body for that to duplicate that make a right
wall and just move that over here.
And I should probably just type in X.
OK.
So now we have these walls we can't see anything.
All I do is hide them.
But the collision should still be there to check that Pressplay play so I can move the player around.
He kind of needs some polish will do that soon.
And the ball bounces a little difficult as you are doing.
I might actually give the ball an emissions.
Let's go in to with our ball.
There is so his ball going to click on a mesh instance.
Let's click on MASH and open the material.
Let's give it some mission.
So what's the colour of got here.
Copy that and into a mission enable it.
PACE the colour in that seems quite bright So let's put that at zero point five and get back in the
game again.
And now we could see the ball.
Now we might switch that off later.
But we now have a ball that can go in there.
Now the ball is getting stuck in a net.
But don't worry later on we the ADD detection here really is an area which liken it to even more area.
And I'll go there.
One thing that can happen and to show this any to pull my camera back just back a bit was back here
it is Pressplay.
I can get the ball into the corner and get it stuck right.
And that's going me a little annoying.
So what I do want to do is add more boundaries.
So I'm going to duplicate all of these walls and take back to show backwell too.
And I'm going to move that one.
Do do do.
Here they are right up to this line and I can see the line right there and do the same with front wall
too.
So I don't need back to front wall to their lives.
And that goes there.
And let's do the same with left wall to show you.
You're going to go.
Not all the way up the line this time because I do want the ball to cross.
And the same with one or two.
So just like so OK now I've just added more walls that the player can't go through.
And I don't want that.
I want to stop the ball and not the player.
So we need to actually change a clearness units get into there and get a static body for each.
So one to do is pick all of my twos I can running them in about four hours empties as a whole control
as I select all the static.
Well he's got a collision.
OK.
You are part of the pitch.
You don't stop the pitch.
You stop the ball but not the players.
In fact would probably take you off pitch entirely because then the ball.
Play won't interact with that and just double check your in the ball not players.
Now it's the same with all the ones that are designed to stop the player so I'm there to minimise all
that are need.
Lou Lou I'm going to open up right wall left wall front wall back wall select the static bodies hoddy
control.
Let's get a collision.
You're not the pitch.
And we could see this was pitch and you missed the player.
And just in case a softball to get hide all of these.
And now we press play the ball will stop against the line and the player once I can always get into
the corner if the ball gets there too slowly and get the ball out and we're off to a really good start
now it's still a little bit of work to done we need to find a good camera position.
We need to make this look better when have our second player but we have got the basics of our game
looking good which brings us to the end of the video.
In this video we've looked at how to generate an automatic collision measure we've made both try Nash
and concave measures gleaming concave convex travelling one of those two and we've looked at duplicate
customize materials.
So excellent work and I'll see you in the next video.